Now I'm going to go through the proof
that Y bar is the minimizer
for this equation here
as a function of mu.
If these kinds of proofs
aren't your thing,
then just skip it and in the subsequent
lectures the same thing though,
I'll give the same caveat before
each time I do something like this.
If you do intend to pay
attention to the proof,
you don't need to know either calculus or
linear algebra, but
ideally you'll be very comfortable
with mathematical notation.
So, for example, if you've had calculus in
your past, you've forgotten the specifics
of the calculus, but you're pretty
familiar with mathematical notation and
working with mathematical notation,
then that's all you need.
Okay, so let's go ahead and do it.
This is the quantity I'd like
to minimize as a function of mu.
My Y i's are my observed data points.
I'm going to subtract and then add Y bar.
So I've just added 0, changes nothing.
So I can have an equal sign there.
I can expand this square out and
I get this term,
twice the cross-product term,
and then this term right here.
Let's look at this term right here.
Notice this doesn't depend on i, so I can
pull it outside of the sum, out here.
Then notice this guy right here,
I can distribute the sum across it.
So I get summation Y i, and then if I
add up Y bar, which doesn't depend on i,
if I add it up n times i, I get n Y bar.
But notice, I would define Y bar as
1 over n times the summation Y i.
Add up my observations and
divide by n is the average.
So in other words,
n Y bar is equal to the summation of Y i.
So this is 0.
That whole term then is 0.
Moving on to the next line,
I have summation Y i minus Y bar squared,
adding those up, and
summation Y bar minus mu squared.
This quantity is the sum of
a bunch of squared things.
Has to be positive.
So if I throw it out, my equal sign
gets turned into a greater than or
equal to sign.
I've only gotten smaller by throwing out a
bunch of positive things that I'm adding.
Let's summarize.
This function, for
any value of mu, is larger than or
equal to the specific case
when we plug in Y bar.
Therefore, Y bar has to be the unique
minimizer of that equation.